Info from player's handbook.

Dwarf
/*
Dwarves have increased Constitution. Dwarves mature at the same rate as humans,
but they're considered young until they reach the age of 50, On average, they
live about 350 years. Most dwarves are lawful, believing firmly in the benefits
of a well-ordered society. They tend toward good as well, with a strong sense of
fair play and a belief that everyone deserves to share in the benefits of a just
order. Dwarves stand between 4 and 5 feet tall and average about 150 pounds. Your
size is Medium. Your base walking speed is 25 feet. Your speed is not reduced by
wearing heavy armor. Accustomed to life underground, you have superior vision in
dark and dim conditions. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it
were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can't discern color
in darkness, only shades of gray. You have advantage on saving throws against poison,
and you have resistance against poison damage. You have proficiency with the
battleaxe, handaxe, throwing hammer, and warhammer. You gain proficiency with the
artisan's tools of your choice: smith's tools, brewer's supplies, or mason's tools.
Whenever you make an Intelligence (History) check related to the origin of stonework,
you are considered proficient in the History skill and add double your proficiency
bonus to the check, instead of your normal proficiency bonus. You can speak, read,
and write Common and Dwarvish. Dwarvish is full of hard consonants and guttural sounds,
and those characteristics spill over into whatever other language a dwarf might speak.
There are two main subraces of dwarves that populate the worlds of D&D: hill dwarves
and mountain dwarves.
.
Hill Dwarves:
Receive a bonus to wisdom and HP.
.
Mountain Dwarves:
Receive a bonus to strength and have proficiency with light and medium armor.
*/

Elf
/*
Elves have increased Dexterity. Although elves reach physical maturity at about the
same age as humans, the elven understanding of adulthood goes beyood physical growth
to encompass worldly experience. A elf typically c1aims adulthood and an adult name
around the age of 100 and can live to be 750 years old. Elves love freedom, variety,
and self-expression, so they lean strongly toward the gentler aspects of chaos. They
value and protect others' freedom as well as their own, and they are more often good
than not. The drow are no exception; their exile into the Underdark has made them vicious
and dangerous. Drow are more often evil than not. Elves range from under 5 to over 6 feet
tall and have slender builds. Your size is Medium. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Accustomed to twilit forests and the night sky, you have superior vision in dark and
dim cooditions. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light,
and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can't discern color in darkness, only shades
of gray. You have proficiency in the Perception skill. You have advantage on saving throws
against being charmed, and magic can't put you to sleep. Elves don't need to sleep. Inslead,
they meditate deeply, remaining semiconscious, for 4 hours a day. (The Common word for such
meditation is "trance.") While meditating, you can dream after a fashion; such dreams are
actually mental exercises that have become reflexive through years of practice. After
resting in this way, you gain the same benefit that a human does from 8 hours of sleep.
You can speak, read, and write Common and Elvish. Elvish is fluid, with subtle intonations
and intricate grammar. Elven literature is rich and varied, and their songs and poems are
famous among other races. Many bards learn their language so they can add Elvish ballads to
their repertoires. Ancient divides among the elven people resulted in three main subraces:
high elves, wood elves, and dark elves, who are commonly called drow.
.
High Elves:
Receive a bonus to intelligence, and have proficiency with the longsword, shortsword, shortbow,
and longbow. You also know one Cantrip of your choice from the wizard spell list (Intelligence
is your spellcasting ability for it) and you can speak, read, and write one extra language of
your choice.
.
Wood Elves:
Receive a bonus to wisdom, and have proficiency with the longsword, shortsword, shortbow, and
longbow. Your base walking speed increases to 35 feet, and you can attempt to hide even when
you are only lightly obscured by foliage, heavy rain, falling snow, mist, and other natural
phenomena.
.
Dark Elves (Drow):
Receive a bonus to charisma, and your darkvision has a radius of 120 feet, but you have
disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight when you,
the target of your attack, or whatever you are trying to perceive is in direct sunlight. You
know the dancing lights cantrip. When you reach 3rd level, you can cast the faerie tire spell
once per day. When you reach 5th level, you can also cast the darkness spell once per day.
Charisma is your spellcasting ability for these spells. You have proficiency with rapiers,
shortswords, and hand crossbows.
*/

Halfling
/*
Halflings have increased dexterity. A halfling reaches adulthood at the age of 20 and generally
lives into the middle of his or her second century. Most halflings are lawful good. As a rule,
they are good-hearted and kind, hate to see others in pain, and have no tolerance for oppression.
They are also very orderly and traditional, leaning heavily on the support of their community
and the comfort of their old ways. Halflings average about 3 feet tall and weigh about 40 pounds.
Your size is Small. Your base walking speed is 25 feet. When you roll a 1 on an attack roll,
ability check, or saving throw, you can reroll the die and must use the new roll. You have advantage
on saving throws against being frightened. You can move through the space of any creature that
is of a size larger than yours. You can speak, read, and write Common and Halfling. The Halfling
language isn't secret, but halflings are loath to share it with others. They write very little,
so they don't have a rich body of literature. Their oral tradition. however, is very strong.
Almost all halflings speak Common to converse with the people in whose lands they dwell or through
which they are traveling. The two main kinds of halfling are lightfoot and stout.
.
Lightfoot Halflings:
Receive a bonus to charisma. You can attempt to hide even when you are obscured only by a creature
that is at least one size larger than you.
.
Stout Halflings:
Receive a bonus to constitution. Vou have advantage on saving throws against poison, and you have
resistance against poison damage.
*/

Human
/*
Well-rounded, Humans have a small increase to all stats. Humans reach adulthood in their late teens
and live less than a century. Humans tend toward no particular alignment. The best and the worst are
found among them. Humans vary widely in height and build, from barely 5 feet to well over 6 feet
tall. Regardless of your position in that range, your size is Medium. Your base walking speed is 30
feet. Vou can speak, read, and write Common and one extra language ofyour choice. Humans typically
learn the languages of other peoples they deal with, including obscure dialects. They are fond of
sprinkling their speech with words borrowed from other tongues: Orc curses, Elvish musical
expressions, Dwarvish military phrases, and so on.
*/

Dragonborn
/*
Dragonborn have increased strength and charisma. Young dragonborn grow quickly. They walk hours
after hatching, attain the size and development of a 10-year-old human child by the age of 3. and
reach adulthood by 15. They live to be around 80. Dragonborn tend to extremes, making a conscious
choice for one side or the other in the cosmic war between good and evil. Most dragonborn are good,
but those who don't can be terrible villains. Dragonborn are taller and heavier than humans, standing
well over 6 feet tall and averaging almost 250 pounds. Your size is Medium. Your base walking speed is
30 feet. You have draconic ancestry. Your breath weapon and damage resistance are determined by the
dragon type, as shown here.
.
Dragon - Damage Type - Breath Weapon
Black - Acid - 5 by 30 ft. line (Dex. save)
Blue - Lightning - 5 by 30 ft. line (Dex. save)
Brass - Fire - 5 by 30 ft. line (Dex. save)
Bronze - Lightning - 5 by 30 ft. line (Dex. save)
Copper - Acid - 5 by 30 fI. line (Dex. save)
Gold - Fire - 15 ft. cone (Dex. save)
Green - Poison - 15 ft. cone (Con. save)
Red - Fire - 15 ft. cone (Dex. save)
Silver - Cold - 15 ft. cone (Con. save)
White - Cold - 15 ft. cone (Con. save)
.
You can use your action to exhale destructive energy. Your draconic ancestry determines the size,
shape, and damage type of the exhalation. When you use your breath weapon, each creature in the area
of the exhalation must make a saving throw, the type of which is determined by your draconic ancestry.
The DC for this saving throw equals 8 + your Constitution modifier + your proficiency bonus. A creature
takes 2d6 damage on a failed save, and half as much damage on a successful one. The damage increases to
3d6 at 6th level, 4d6 at 11th level, and 5d6 at 16th level. After you use your breath weapon, you can't
use it again until you complete a short or long rest. You have resistance to the damage type associated
with your draconic ancestry. Vou can speak. read, and write Common and Draconic. Draconic is thought to
be one of the oldest languages and is often used in the study of magic. The language sounds harsh to
most other creatures and includes numerous hard consonants and sibilants.
*/

Gnome
/*
Gnomes have increased intelligence. Gnomes mature at lhe same rate humans do, and most are expected to
settle down into an adult life by around age 40. They can live 350 to almost 500 years. Gnomes are most
often good. Those who lend toward law are sages, engineers, researchers, scholars, investigators, or
inventors. Those who lend toward chaos are minstrels, trickslers, wanderers, ar fandful jewelers.
Gnomes are good-hearted, and even the tricksters among them are more playful than vicious. Gnomes are
between 3 and 4 feet tall and average about 40 pounds. Your size is Small. Your base walking speed is
25 feet. Accustomed to life underground, you have superior vision in dark and dim conditions. You can
see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim
light. You can't discern coler in darkness, only shades of gray. You have advantage on all Intelligence,
Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws against magic. Voucan speak, read, and write Common and Gnomish.
The Gnomish language, which uses the Dwarvish script, is renowned for its technical treatises and its
catalogs of knowledge about the natural world. Two subraces of gnomes are found among the worlds of D&D:
forest gnomes and rock gnomes.
.
Forest Gnomes:
Receive a bonus to dexterity. You know the minor illusion cantrip. Intelligence is your spellcasting
ability for it. Through sounds and gestures, you can communicate simple ideas with Small ar smaller
beasts. Forest gnomes love animals and often keep squirrels, badgers, rabbits, moles, woodpeckers,
and other creatures as beloved pets.
.
Rock Gnomes:
Receive a bonus to constitution. Whenever you make an Intelligence (History) check related to magic
items, alchemical objects, or technological devices, you can add twice your proficiency bonus, instead
of any proficiency bonus you normally apply. You have proficiency with artisan's tools (tinker's tools).
Using those tools, you can spend 1 hour and 10 gp worth of materiaIs to construct a Tiny c1ockwork device
(AC5, 1 hp). The device ceases to function after 24 hours (without additional repairs), or when you use
your action to dismantle it; at that time, you can reclaim the materials used to create it. You can have
up to three such devices active at a time.
*/

Half-Elf
/*
Your half-elf character has some qualities in common with elves and some that are unique to half-elves.
Half-Elves have increased Charisma and two other stats of your choice. Half-elves mature at the same
rate humans do and reach adulthood around the age of 20. They live much longer than humans, however,
often exceeding 180 years. Half-elves share the chaotic bent of their elven heritage. They value both
personal freedom and creative expression, demonstrating neither love of leaders nor desire for followers.
They chafe at rules, resent others' demands, and sometimes prove unreliable, or at least unpredictable.
Half-eIves are about the same size as humans, ranging from 5 to 6 feet taIl. Your size is Medium. Your
base walking speed is 30 feet. Thanks to your elfblood, you have superior vision in dark and dim
conditions. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness
as if it were dim light. You can't discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Vouhave advantage
on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can't put you to sleep. You can speak, read, and
write Common, Elvish, and one extra language of your choice.
*/

Half-Orc
/*
Half-Orc have increased Strength and Constitution. Half-ores mature a tittle faster than humans,
reaching adulthood around age 14. They age noticeably faster and rarely live longer than 75 years.
Half-orcs inherit a tendency toward chaos from their orc parents and are not strongly inclined toward
good. Half-orcs raised among orcs and willing to live out their lives among them are usually evil.
Half-orcs are somewhat larger and bulkier than humans, and they range from 5 to well over 6 feet tall.
Your size is Medium. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Thanks to your ore blood, you have superior
vision in dark and dim conditions. You can see in dim tight within 60 feet of you as if it were bright
light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can't discern color in darkness, only shades of
gray. You gain proficieney in the Intimidation skill. When you are reduced to O hit points but not
killed outright, you can drop to 1 hit point instead. You can't use this feature again until you
finish a long rest. When you score a critical hit with a melee weapon attack, you can roll one of
the weapon's damage dice one additional time and add it to lhe extra damage of the critical hit.
You can speak, read, and write Common and Orc. Ore is a harsh, grating language with hard consonants.
It has no script of its own but is written in the Dwarvish script.
*/

Tiefling
/*
Your intelligence score increases by 1, and your Charisma score increases by 2. Tieflings mature at
the same rate as humans but live a few years longer. Tieflings might not have an innate tendency
toward evil, but many of them end up there. Evil or not, an independent nature inclines many
tieflings toward a chaotic alignment. Tieflings are about the same size and build as humans. Your
size is Medium. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Thanks to your infernal heritage, you have
superior vision in dark and dim conditions. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if
it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can't discern color in darkness,
only shades of gray. You have resistance to fire damage. You know the thaumaturgy cantrip. Once
you reach 3rd level, you can cast the hellish rebuke spell once per day as a 2nd-level spell.
Once you reach 5th level, you can also cast the darkness spell once per day. Charisma is your
spellcasting ability for these spclls. You can speak, read, and write Common and Infernal.
*/

Dwarf
Elf
Halfling
Dragonborn
Gnome